# Workflows in LENS

In this chapter, you'll dive into the creation and management of workflows in LENS. By the end, you'll understand how to streamline tasks and enhance operational efficiency using workflow tools.

## Lesson Structure

### Lesson 1 : Web Form in LENS

Explore how web forms function and learn the basic concepts needed to create and manage web forms.

### Lesson 2 : Reports

Explore the different types of reports in LENS. Learn how to create custom reports, apply filters, and visualize data for better analysis and decision-making.

### Lesson 3 : Dashboard

Learn how to create and customize dashboards in LENS to display data from various modules. Explore how to add charts, and design dynamic dashboards.

### Lesson 4 : Adding Fields to Your DocType

Learn to add fields to your DocType based on your requirements.

### Lesson 5 : LENS Hands-On

Gain practical experience in developing and deploying applications using the LENS.

### Lesson 6 : Knowledge Check

This lesson includes practical tasks to reinforce your learning and a quiz to ensure you grasp the essential concepts. Let’s get started and see how much you’ve mastered!

## Moving Forward

-   Review the key points from every lesson.
-   Prepare for the next lesson by completing any assigned tasks.
-   Stay engaged and ready for more learning!

Thank you for engaging with this lesson. We look forward to diving deeper in the next session!
<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbMTcwNzY2NDM2MywxMTQyNjExNzQwXX0=
-->