#  Server Scripts
  
Server Scripts in LENS allow you to execute Python code on the server side, enabling you to add custom business logic, validations, and automate processes directly in the Frappe framework. This is particularly useful when you need to perform operations that are beyond the scope of client-side scripts.
  

## Key Concepts
  

### Script Types:
  
-   **API**: These scripts are executed when a custom API endpoint is called.
-   **Scheduler Event**: These scripts are triggered by scheduled events, such as daily or hourly tasks.
-   **Document Event**: These scripts are triggered by specific events on DocTypes (e.g., `before_save`, `after_insert`).
-   **Permission Query**: These scripts modify the query used to fetch records based on user permissions.
  
### **Events**:  
  
Anything that might be needed by a modern web application is probably built into the framework already. PDF generation, Emails, SMS, Web Pages you name it.

### Easy Deployment:  
  
Bench is the all-in-one tool to manage all things LENS. It handles app updates, database migrations, generating configs for nginx and supervisor, scaffolding new apps and much more. 

  
### Rich Admin Interface:  

LENS does not only manage the backend, it also comes with a feature rich admin interface called the Desk. When you create a DocType in LENS, a number of views are generated for it. Some of them are:

- List View supports filtering, sorting and editing of bulk records.
- Form View supports file attachments, PDF format, comments, email, etc.
- The Report Builder supports adding columns, grouping, filtering, sorting and saving it as a configuration.
<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbLTE5Njg5NTc0NjcsMTAzMTM4OTM5MiwyMD
g0ODY3Mzk3LDIwOTQ3ODQ3MDAsNzMwOTk4MTE2XX0=
-->