# Document API

A Document is an instance of a DocType. It is derived from the  `frappe.model.Document`  class and represents a single record in the database table.

## frappe.get_doc ##

`frappe.get_doc` is a method in Frappe framework used to retrieve a document (record) from the database based on certain criteria. It allows you to work with the document object, which means you can access fields, manipulate data, and perform operations like saving, updating, or deleting the document.

**Basic Syntax**

 ``` javascript
 doc = frappe.get_doc(doctype, name)
```
-   **doctype**: The type of document you want to retrieve (e.g., "Sales Invoice", "Customer").
-   **name**: The name or ID of the document (usually a unique identifier).

## frappe.get_meta ##
`frappe.get_meta` is a method in LENS that provides metadata about a particular DocType. This metadata includes details about the fields, permissions, and other settings related to the DocType. It's useful for dynamically interacting with the structure and schema of documents .

**Basic Syntax**
``` javascript
meta = frappe.get_meta(doctype)
```
doctype: The type of document for which you want to retrieve metadata (e.g., "Sales Invoice", "Customer").

## frappe.get_all ##
`frappe.get_all` is a simpler method used to fetch records from a specific DocType. It returns a list of dictionaries, each representing a record.

**Basic Syntax**
``` javascript
records = frappe.get_all(doctype, fields=None, filters=None, limit=None)
```
-   doctype: The type of document you want to fetch (e.g., "Sales Invoice", "Customer").
-   fields: A list of field names you want to retrieve (e.g., ["name", "email_id"]).
-   filters: A dictionary of conditions to filter the records (e.g., {"status": "Open"}).
-   limit: The maximum number of records to fetch (e.g., 10).

## frappe.get_list
`frappe.get_list` provides more control and flexibility compared to `frappe.get_all`. It can also return metadata like the count of records.1
``` javascript
records = frappe.get_list(doctype, fields=None, filters=None, limit=None, order_by=None, start=None, page_length=None)
```
-   doctype: The type of document you want to fetch.
-   fields: A list of field names to retrieve.
-   filters: Conditions to filter records.
-   limit: The maximum number of records to fetch.
-   order_by: Specify how to order the results (e.g., "name desc"`).
-   star`: The starting point for pagination (offset).
-   page_length: Number of records per page.


<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbMTI4NzMzMDg3MiwxODY5MTg5MzUzXX0=
-->