#  Create Users and Roles 
  
In this Lesson y You'll learn how to create user accounts and define roles, which are sets of permissions that determine what a user can access and do within the platform.**Users** are individual accounts that represent people who will interact with your system, and **roles** are sets of permissions that control what these users can do.
  

# **Creating Users**
  

### 1. Navigate to the User List:
Go to the **User** list by typing "User" in the search bar or navigating to **Users and Permissions > User** in the sidebar.
  
### 2. Create a New User:

-   Click on the **New** button to create a new user.
-   Fill in the user details, such as **First Name**, **Last Name**, **Email**, etc.
-   Set the user’s status to **Enabled**.
### Easy Deployment:  
  
Bench is the all-in-one tool to manage all things LENS. It handles app updates, database migrations, generating configs for nginx and supervisor, scaffolding new apps and much more. 

  
### Rich Admin Interface:  

LENS does not only manage the backend, it also comes with a feature rich admin interface called the Desk. When you create a DocType in LENS, a number of views are generated for it. Some of them are:

- List View supports filtering, sorting and editing of bulk records.
- Form View supports file attachments, PDF format, comments, email, etc.
- The Report Builder supports adding columns, grouping, filtering, sorting and saving it as a configuration.
<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbMTQ4ODAxNDMxOCwtMTcwNjUzMzIyNywxND
I3ODQ0MzIsLTEwNjk4NDg3NzFdfQ==
-->