# What is DocType

A DocType is the core building block of any application based on the **LENS** Framework. It describes the **Model** and the **View** of your data. It contains what fields are stored for your data, and how they behave with respect to each other.

The standard way to create a DocType is by typing _new doctype_ in the search bar in the **Desk**.

### Creating DocType:

1. Go to the Desk and type the new DocType in the search bar.
2. Enter the name of the new DocType.
3. Select the module that the DocType will belong to.
4. Add fields for that corresponding DocType and also its field type, options, etc.
5. Click the 'Save' button to create the new DocType.

### Customizing DocType:

1. Add a new field to an Existing DocType. For example, Add a field 'DOB' to the 'Job Applicants' DocType.
2. Change the field properties of an existing field. For example, Change the 'Cover Letter' field from a 'Text Editor' field to a 'Long Text' field.
3. Add a new link to a DocType. For example, Add a link 'Job Opening' to the 'Job Applicants' DocType.
4. Remove a field from a DocType. For example, Remove the 'Age' field from the 'Job Applicants' DocType.
5. Click the 'Save' button to create the new DocType.

### Create a Custom Field:

1. Go to New Custom Field in the search bar.
2. Select the DocType that you want to add the custom field to.
**Label:**  The label that will be displayed for the custom field.
**Field Type:**  The type of data that the custom field will store.
**Name:**  The field name for the custom field.
3. Click on the 'Save' button.
4. Then Go to add the customized field to that corresponding DocType.
<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbLTE1MDgxMzM2NDRdfQ==
-->