**Practice 1**

**Objective:**  Create a new spec in Cypress using JavaScript.

**Steps:**

1.  Assuming you've successfully  installed Cypress and opened Cypress now it's time to add your first test. We're going to do this with the **Create new empty spec** button.
    
2.  Open Cypress for the first time to create the default folder structure:
    
	```bash
	npx cypress open
	```
 3. **Create a New Spec File**

- Your test files (specs) will go inside the `cypress/e2e` folder .
- Create a new JavaScript file in the appropriate folder. 

   **For Example:**
	```bash
	File_name.cy.js
	```
4.  Even though we haven't written any code yet - that's okay - let's click on your new spec and watch Cypress launch it. Cypress will visit `https://example.cypress.io` and the test passes.

**Practice 2**

**Objective:** Write a basic test to open a demolens and login.

**Steps:**

1.  Create a new test file in the **cypress/e2e** directory:
    
    ```bash
    test1.cy.js
    ```
    
2.  Open **test1.cy.js** in your code editor and add the following code:
    

	 ```javascript
	describe('template spec', () => {
	it('passes', () => {
	cy.visit('https://demolens.lmnas.com/login#login');
    cy.get('#login_email').click()
    cy.get('#login_email').type('example@lmnas.com')
    cy.get('#login_password').type('xxxxxxxx')
    cy.get('.for-login > .login-content > .form-signin > .page-card-actions > .btn').click()
	})
	})
	```

    This script visits a demolens and login to the lens.

**Hints:**

-   Use `cy.visit()` to navigate to a URL.
-   Use `cy.get()` to select DOM elements and perform assertions on them.


**Practice 2**
 
**Objective:**  Testing the Quotation List on Demo Lens with Login


**Steps to be followed** :

   -   Logging into the demolens.
    -   Navigating to the quotation list.
    -   Selecting a quotation and verifying its details.
    -   Exiting the quotation details view.

1.  **Log In to Demo Lens:**
    
    -   Open [Demo Lens](https://demolens.lmnas.com/app).
    -   Enter username and password, then click "Login".
    -   Verify navigation to the main page with the quotation list.
2.  **Select a Quotation:**
    
    -   Locate the quotation list and Select a quotation.
3.  **Verify Quotation Details:** 
    -   Check the details page like Quotation ID, date, customer info, total amount, items/services.
    -   Use assertions to verify correct data.
4.  **Exit Quotation Details:**
    -   Confirm return to the main quotation list page.

**Hints** :
-   **Element Selectors:**
    
    -   Use IDs, classes, or `data-testid` for selectors.
    -   Navigate lists/tables with `.find()`, `.first()`, etc.
-   **Assertions:**
    
    -   Use `.should('be.visible')` to verify element presence.
    -   Check field values with appropriate assertions.

<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbLTE5MzY2MjExMzAsMjMzOTkxNTg2LDEyND
c5MzA0MzksLTE4NjQ2MDk1NV19
-->